New article rules ui (#675)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/productivity/manage-your-rules.md

---
id: manage-your-rules
themes: boost-your-productivity, catalog-settings
title: Manage your **rules**
popular: false
ee-only: true
related: what-is-a-rule
---

# Overview

A rule allows you to automatically enrich some of your product information. It relies on automatic actions based on conditions. A rule is composed of one or several conditions, that allow you to filter products/product models, and then one or several actions to update these products/product models.  
For more details, please refer to our dedicated article about [the rules engine](get-started-with-the-rules-engine.html).

To create a rule, there are two options. Either you create it via the UI, or via a YML import job.

# Create a rule in the PIM UI

> To create a rule via the UI, go to `Settings/Rules` and click on `Create`. A creation popin appears. Choose a **code** and a **label** to name your rule, then validate. You rule is created! You can now define your product selection and the action.s you want to apply to your selection. Let's go!

Reviewer: Should we add a warning about ACL?

> To create a rule via the UI, go to `Settings/Rules` and click on `Create`. A creation popin appears. Choose a **code** and a **label** to name your rule, then validate. You rule is created! You can now define your product selection and the action.s you want to apply to your selection. Let's go!

Reviewer: `action.s`

Author: c'est pour montrer qu'il peut y avoir 1 ou plusieurs actions

:::

The first thing to do is to filter the products you want to update with this rule. To do so, there are a bunch of filters available under the `Add condition` button.

### Product selection
In the `Product selection` part, you can define the 'Conditions'. They are the attributes or system fields you want to use to filter your products/product models. Altogether, your `Conditions` will create your 'Product selection'.

:::info
If you want to know what is the entire [list of attributes/system fields](get-started-with-the-rules-engine.html) take a look at our article.
:::

:::warning
By default, when there is no condition, all your product catalog is selected. So if you add one or several actions, all your catalog will be updated!
:::

The system fields are displayed first in the list, and then all the attributes are gathered by attribute groups. There is a search bar to help you find the attributes. Each time you choose a filter, its color turns to purple to inform you that it is already used, and a new line is created.

Let's see how a line is sliced.

> On the left, you retrieve the **system** or **attribute** chosen. It is written in purple.

Reviewer: system field, no ?

| Clear groups  | Delete all the groups of your products selection (product models don't have groups) |
| Clear categories  | Delete all the categories of your products/product models selection  |
| Set attribute value  | Replace the attribute value of your products/product models selection  |

## Different use cases
As explained earlier, some conditions/actions are not available in the UI yet. It means that you are not able to build all the rules you want via the PIM, and you may need to use the YML file import to do so. Let's see what happens depending on different situations.

### All the conditions/actions you need are available in the UI
The conditions/actions that are available right now cover 80% of our clients use cases. It means that 80% of our clients' rules can be managed directly in the UI.
For example, you can **categorize** all the products/product models that are in the **"accessories" family**, and which has an empty `description` attribute.
To do so, you must add two conditions. One on family, and another one on the description attribute.
Then, add the `Set category` action, and choose the category tree and the category.

> SCREENSHOT

Reviewer: TODO

### Some conditions/actions are missing yet in the UI
If you need to build a rule using filters/actions that are not available in the UI yet, you must use the YML file import to create the rule. Then, when you import this file, your rule appears in the rules grid. You can open it and edit the conditions/actions that are available in the UI.
Let's see how it is displayed in the UI after a YML import.

#### If your condition is not available in the UI yet
If your conditions are composed of system fields (for instance: `status`) or attribute types (for instance: `asset collection`) that we don't manage in the UI, these conditions will be displayed in a read only mode.

> SCREENSHOT

Reviewer: TODO

#### If your action is not available in the UI yet
The action will be displayed in a read only mode.

If your action is composed of system fields (for instance: `status`) or attribute types (for instance: `asset collection`) that we don't manage in the UI, these actions will be displayed in a read only mode.

> SCREENSHOT

Reviewer: TODO

#### If your action is available in the UI, but not the attribute used in this action

> For example, it's a `set attribute value` action (already available), and the target attribute is an attribute type that is not supported yet such as an `asset collection`): then you will be able to edit **only the attributes types that are available in the UI**. You won't see the other attribute types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you needed to use a `set attribute value` action (already available), and a target attribute that is not supported yet such as an `asset collection`. Therefore you previously imported your rule via YML. In this case, you will only be able to edit **the attribute types that were already available in the UI**. You won't see the other attribute types, such as the asset collection in our example.
```

> SCREENSHOT

Reviewer: TODO

# Create rules via a YML import
To create rules using a YML file, you need to create it like explained in [this](get-started-with-the-rules-engine.html) article and import it in the PIM using the `Rule import in YML` import job.

::: info
For more details about how to execute an import, please refer to [Import your data](imports.html).
:::

:::tips
You can also export your rules. For that, execute the `Rule export in YML` export job. For more details about how to execute an export, please refer to [Export your data](exports.html).
:::

# View all rules

The `Settings/Rules` screen displays a grid with all the rules that have been created and imported in the PIM.  
You can search on the rule code or label.

![image](../img/Settings_Rules.png)

In the last column, there is a tag. Thanks to these tags, you can see at a glance the action type behind each rule (add, copy, concatenate, set, calculate, remove, clear) :wink:

> # Calculate the number of impacted products for rules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Calculate the number of impacted products per rule
```

To help you define the conditions for your rules and validate them, you can calculate the number of matching products that the rule will process.

The first time a rule is executed, it can match many products. The following time, you might have zero `Impacted products` or only a few.

1.  To use this action, select one or several rules by ticking them on the left side of the screen
1.  Click on `Calculate the impacted products`
1.  Then confirm the action in the pop in

> 1.  A flash message confirming the action will be displayed and you will be notified once the calculation is done.

Reviewer: If this is normal to have 1. 1. 1. 1., don't take this comment into account.

![image](../img/Rules_Summary.png)

:::tips
In order to access the summary of nightly scheduled rules (by cron), you need to have the right to `View all jobs in process tracker` in the `Roles` permissions to be able to see them the process tracker :wink:.
:::

## Execute a single rule

To execute a rule, click on the `Execute` button at the end of each line in the grid.  
A confirmation message validates the action of executing a rule.

![image](../img/Settings_RulesExecution1.png)

## Execute a selection of rules

You can also execute several rules at the same time:
1.  Select one or several rules by ticking them on the left side of the screen
1.  Click on `Execute`
1.  Then confirm the action in the pop in
1.  A flash message confirming the action will be displayed and you will be notified once the execution is done

![image](../img/Settings_RulesExecutionNotif.png)

# Delete rules

::: warning
A deleted rule can no longer be executed by the rules engine. The products keep the values calculated by the deleted rule.
:::

## Delete a single rule

> To delete a rule, click on the `Delete` button at the end of each line in the grid.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete a rule, click on `Delete` at the end of each line in the grid.  
```

A confirmation message validates the action of deleting a rule.

![image](../img/Settings_RulesDeleteHover.png)

::: info  

> If you do not see the `Delete` button, it might be because you do not have the relevant rights. Please refer to [Manage your user roles](build-your-user-roles.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not see the `Delete` button, it might be because you do not have the right permissions. Please refer to [Manage your user roles](build-your-user-roles.html).
```
